
# Key Generation and Distribution #
[Flow-Overview](pics/802.11i-01.png)

## Key Hierarchy ##

* MSK(Master Session Keys)
* PMK(Pairwise Master Key): 
  This highest order key used within this standard. The `PMK` may be derived from key generated by an EAP method or may obtained directly from a preshared key(PSK);
  
* Pairwise Master Key Security Association(PMKSA):
  The context resulting from a successfully IEEE 802.1X authentication exchange between the peer an Authentication Server(AS) or from a presharedkey(PSK).

* PMK Identifier(PMKID):
  A number referring to 1) a cached `PMKSA` that has been obtained through preauthentication with the target AP or 2) a cached PMKSA from an EAP authentication, or 3) a `PMKSA` derived from a PSK for the target AP.

* PTK(Pairwise Transient Key):
  A value that is derived from the `PMK`, `Autheticator Address(AA)`, `Supplicant Address(SPA)`, `Authenticator nonce(Anonce)` and `Supplicant nonce(SNonce)` using the `pseudo-random function (PRF)`and that is split up into as many as five keys, i.e., temporal encryption key, two temporal message integrity code(MIC) keys, EAPOL-Key encryption key(KEK), EAPOL-Key confirmation key(KCK).

* PTK Security Association(PTKSA):
  The context resulting from a successful 4-way Handshake exchange between peer and Authenticator.

* Preauthentication
  The act of authenticating with an AP to which the STA is currently not associated while the STA is already associated with an AP. If the authentication is left until reassociation time, this may impact the speed with which a STA can reassociation between APs, limiting BSS-transition mobility performance. The use of preauthentication takes the overhead of the authentication service out of the time-critical reassociation process.

* Robust Security Network(RSN):
  A security network that allows only the creation of robust security network association(`RSNAs`). An RSN can be identified by the indication in the `RSN` information element(`IE`) of Beacon frames that the group cipher suite spcified is not wired equivelent privacy(`WEP`).

* 4-way Handshake
  
* GMK
* GTK

## How PMKSAs and PMKIDs are formed and used ##

### PMKID ###

  - *The `PMKID` Count and List fields shall be used only in the RSN information element in the (Re)Association Request frame to an AP*
  - *The `PMKID` Count specifies the number of PMKIDs in the PMKID list field*
  - *`PMKID` list contains 0 or more PMKIDs that the STA believes to be valid for the destination AP.*
  - `PMKID` can refer to
    - A cached `PMKSA` that has been obtained through preauthentication with the targe AP
    - A cached `PMKSA` from an EAP authentication
    - A `PMKSA` derived from a PSK for the target AP
 
**NOTE**:
  A STA can choose not insert a PMKID in the PMKID list field if the STA does not want to use `PMKSA`.

### PMKSA ###



## 4-way handshake ##

*A 4-way hand Handshake utilizing EAPOL-Key frames is initiated by the authenticator to do the following*

  - Confirm that a live peer holds the **PMK**;
  - Confirm that the **PMK** is current; 
  - Derive a fresh pairwise transient key(**PTK**) from PMK. Install the pairwise encryption and integrity keys into IEEE802.11;
  - Transport the Group Temporal Key(**GTK**) and GTK sequence number from Authenticator to Supplicant and install the GTK and GTK sequence in the STA and, if not already installed, in the Authenticator;
  - Confirm the cipher suite selection.

## Reauthectication ##

  - when the `supplicant` roams, it sends the **PMK** number (**PMKID**) in the reassociation request frame, notifying the `Authenticator` that it wishes to use this cached **PMK** rather than go through the `802.1X/EAP` reauthentication process to generate another one(which would take a long time). It can shorten the process of roaming from hundreds of milliseconds to tens of milliseconds, yielding from roaming speed suitable fro `VoIP` and other similar time/latency sensitive applications.
  
  - An AP can retain `PMKs` for STAs in the ESS to which it has previously performed a full IEEE 802.1X authentication. If a STA wishes to roam an AP for which it has cached one or more `PMKSAs`, it can include one or more `PMKIDs` in the `RSN` information element of its **Reassociation Request Frame**. An AP whose Authenticator has retained the PMK for one or more of the PMKIDs can skip the 802.1X authentication and proceed with the 4-Way Handshake. If none of the PMKIDs of the cached PMKSAs matches any of the supplied PMKIDs, then the Authenticator shall perform another IEEE 802.1X authentication. Similarly, if the STA fails to send a PMKID, the STA and AP must perform a full IEEE 802.1X authentication. 